feat: Validate that HTTP variable templates match resource pattern definitions (AIP-127) (#1045)
googleapis/api-linter: docs/rules/0127/http-template-pattern.md

---
rule:
  aip: 127
  name: [core, '0127', http-template-pattern]
  summary: |

>     HTTP annotations should match the patterns defined by their resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    HTTP template variable patterns should match the patterns defined by their resources.
```

permalink: /127/http-template-pattern
redirect_from:
  - /127/http-template-pattern
---

# HTTP Pattern Variables

This rule enforces that any HTTP annotations that reference a resource must
match one of the pattern strings defined by that resource, as mandated in
[AIP-127][].

## Details

> This rule checks methods for the `google.api.http` annotation. If one is present
> and if it includes a variable, this rule will check that the variable's template
> matches a pattern for the corresponding resource.

Reviewer: Let's tighten this up a bit.

```suggestion
This rule ensures that `google.api.http` path template variables that represent
a resource name match one of the resource name patterns of the resource the
field being referenced represents.
```
